[MUSIC]
So in this lecture,
we'll continue talking about the different
steps that happen when you click Verify or
click Update that are required to get
the code onto the Arduino for execution.
We'll talk about the rest of the steps,
Cross-Compilation being one of them,
linking, that type of thing,
so we'll talk about those.
So compile a link.
So after you've combined the different
source code files into one, and
you transform them adding the main and
including the libraries and
all that type of thing.
Then you compile it,
actually you cross-compile the code.
So, avr-gcc is the program
that is actually
invoked to perform cross-compilation.
So compilation is taking the C or
C++ source code and
generating the machine code required
to execute the actual program.
Cuz the processor, remember,
only understands machine code,
it only understands its
own machine language,
it doesn't understand the high-level
language that we are actually coding in.
So it has to get transformed into that,
that's what compilation is.
Now, cross-compilation,
which is what we're doing here,
is when you compile code on one
machine for another machine.
So, typically, you're compiling it on
a desktop machine, laptop machine,
which maybe has an Intel x86 type
processor on it, something like that.
And so you're compiling it
on an x86 processor but
the code that you get does not
execute on an x86 processor.
It executes on the Arduino's processor,
specifically the AVR processor
AVR Atmega328 that's running on
the typical Arduino Uno setting, right?
So you're compiling it on an Intel
processor but you're compiling it for
your target, is actually an AVR processor,
a different processor.
So if you take that executable and try to
run it on your Intel it will not work.
So this is called cross-compilation,
you compile on one machine, but
the target is another machine.
So, avr-gcc is the tool that is used to,
behind the scenes, the tool that is used
to actually do this cross compilation.
Now when I say behind the scenes,
I mean that you as a user,
as a programmer,
you don't have to see that tool.
You just click Verify or
you click Upload, and
the Arduino IDE invokes this program for
you.
And just so you know, GCC is made by
the GNU corporation, free software.
And avr-gcc is the compiler version for
AVR target processors.
So the resulting code executes on the AVR
processor, not on your standard Intel.
So, once you do compilation, you get an
object file, a .o file, it's compiled but
it's not finished yet
because it still needs to be linked.
So linking means taking the object
files and combining them.
So including the object files for
your libraries, right?
So you have these libraries, these
Arduino libraries that you're using, and
they have their own .o files, and
those have to be linked together.
So when we say linked, generally that
means, it implies several things, but
mostly it means, inside your code,
whenever you make a call to a library
function from Arduino,
you have to insert a branch or
a jump statement that jumps
you to their code, okay?
And, so, they have to be, but the question
is separately when you compile them
originally, you don't
know where to jump to.
But once you combine these .o files into
one then you know where each function is
relative to the other functions,
so you can put the jumps in.
So this is a longer story
which we will not go into, but
that's the linking process, you take
the data files and you join them together.
So the object file is linked to
the Arduino library functions,
which we're definitely using.
Now, once we get these .o files,
actually once we link it,
once we get actually finish the linking,
you get what's called a .elf file.
That's an executable file.
And you can execute that code.
But, the Arduino processor
does not accept ELF files.
So we have to take the ELF file and
change its format to another format.
So for that,
the IDE uses a program called avr-objcopy.
And that's invoked to change
the format of the executable file
to the one that the Arduino
expects to see.
So this is a formatting thing, and
we're not gonna go into details of it, but
the .hex file is generated from the .elf
file that's created after linking.
So it changes from one format to another,
and
the hex file can actually be
executed by the Arduino's processor.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]